# Lamp History

A system for controlling lamps from buttons placed strategically around a room
(next to your bed, for example), and displaying a history of when they are *on*
and *off* as a rough proxy for sleep data.


## Setup

[`lamps.py`](lamps.py) runs on a Raspberry Pi, connected to push buttons and an
[IoT Power Relay](https://dlidirect.com/products/iot-power-relay). Pushing a
button toggles the relay and records the event to `history.txt`.


## History Chart

[`render.py`](render.py) produces a series of charts based on the `history.txt`
output by `lamps.py`.

```sh
render.py outpit_dir list_of_history_files...
```

With no arguments, `render.py` looks for `input.txt` and reads a
newline-separated list of arguments.

### History

`history.png` is a raw representation of when the lamps were *on* or *off*. Each
horizontal strip represents one day, from midnight to midnight. The chart has
horizontal gridlines dividing weeks (Sunday-Saturday), and vertical gridlines
dividing hours in each day. The date of each Sunday is labeled on the left side,
as well as every other hour on the top and bottom. White regions represent when
the lamps were *on*, and black regions when they were *off*.

This is an example `history.png` showing 90 days of artificial data:

![history](example_output/history.png)

### Trend

The `trend_*.png` files show the same data, but presented differently. The chart
layout is the same as `history.png`, but the color at each location represents
the average time the lamps have been *on* per day in the specified previous
interval (1, 7, 14, and 30 days for `daily`, `weekly`, `fortnightly`, and
`monthly` respectively). The scale at the bottom shows how much time per day
each color represents. Lighter colors mean more time *on*, and darker colors
mean more time *off*. Note that the scale is different for each chart.

This is an example `trend_weekly.png` showing the same 90 days of artificial
data (note the blank space at the top of the chart, because it has not yet been
a week since the start of the data, so there isn't a valid weekly average for
those times):

![weekly trend](example_output/trend_weekly.png)

### Plots

[`plots1.png`](example_output/plots1.png) and -`.pdf` shows various plots of other
information about the data that might be interesting. The top two are histograms
of the time the lamps are continuously *off* or *on* (a "segment"). The middle
two show the relationship between the lengths of adjacent segments (*off* then
*on*, or *on* then *off*). The bottom two show the relationship between a
segment's length and the total time the lamps were *off* in the 24 hours prior
to the segment's start.


## Examples

[`generate_example.py`](generate_example.py) was used to generate 90 days of
random data in [`example_history.txt`](example_history.txt).
[`example_output/`](example_output) contains all of the charts based on that
data generated by `render.py`.


## Known Issues

* DST changes result in irregularities for `render.py`. The skipped hour in
spring shows up as a blank hour *after* the segment where it actually happened.
The script has no way to handle the repeated hour in fall, so some data gets
obscured.
* `render.py` splits segments that cross a day boundary (i.e., runs through
midnight) into two segments so that it can display them properly, but it assumes
that there will never be a segment that crosses more than one day boundary.
